feat: add origin check for CSRF protection (#10678)
withastro/astro: .changeset/fair-jars-behave.md

---
"astro": minor
---

> Adds a new security - and experimental - option to prevent CSRF attacks. This feature is available only for on-demand pages:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adds a new experimental security option to prevent CSRF attacks. This feature is available only for pages rendered on demand:
```

```js
import { defineConfig } from "astro/config"
export default defineConfig({
  experimental: {
    security: {
      csrfProtection: {
        origin: true
      }
    }
  }
})
```

> When enabled, it checks that the "origin" header, automatically passed by all modern browsers, matches the URL sent by each `Request`.
> 
> The "origin" check is executed only on-demand pages, and only for the requests `POST, `PATCH`, `DELETE` and `PUT`, only for those requests that
> the followin `content-type` header: 'application/x-www-form-urlencoded', 'multipart/form-data', 'text/plain'.
> 
> It the "origin" header doesn't match the pathname of the request, Astro will return a 403 status code and won't render the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enabling this setting performs a check that the "origin" header, automatically passed by all modern browsers, matches the URL sent by each `Request`.

This experimental "origin" check is executed only for pages rendered on demand, and only for the requests `POST, `PATCH`, `DELETE` and `PUT` with one of the following `content-type` headers: 'application/x-www-form-urlencoded', 'multipart/form-data', 'text/plain'.

It the "origin" header doesn't match the pathname of the request, Astro will return a 403 status code and won't render the page.
```

---
"astro": minor
---

Adds a new security - and experimental - option to prevent CSRF attacks. This feature is available only for on-demand pages:

```js
import { defineConfig } from "astro/config"
export default defineConfig({
  security: {
    csrfProtection: {
      origin: true
    }
  },
  experimental: {

>     csrfProtection: true

Reviewer 2: This sugar version is not explained in the RFC. I'm wondering, should we even have it? I could see arguments that the cookie version is better and should be the default. It might be good to just let them specify which version to use manually.

Reviewer 2: Oh sorry, i this is to enable the protection as an experimental feature. Ignore!
